<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang=en>
<head>
<meta charset=utf-8>
<title>DPVCG Meeting Call &ndash; 13 JUL 2023</title>
<meta name=viewport content="width=device-width">
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2018" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/base.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/public.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="2004" href="https://www.w3.org/2004/02/minutes-style.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Fancy" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/fancy.css">
<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="Typewriter" href="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/tt-member.css">
</head>

<body>
<header>
<p><a href="https://www.w3.org/"><img src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/logos/W3C" alt=W3C border=0 height=48 width=72></a></p>

<h1>DPVCG Meeting Call</h1>
<h2>13 JUL 2023</h2>

<nav id=links>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/bb8bebec-928a-4095-9722-0c38de7db2f0/20230713T140000/"><img alt="Agenda." title="Agenda" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/chronometer.png"></a>
<a href="https://www.w3.org/2023/07/13-dpvcg-irc"><img alt="IRC log." title="IRC log" src="https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/scribe2/text-plain.png"></a>
</nav>
</header>

<div id=prelims>
<div id=attendees>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<dl class=intro>
<dt>Present</dt><dd>beatriz, delaram, gabrielHogan, georg, harsh, ted</dd>
<dt>Regrets</dt><dd>tobias</dd>
<dt>Chair</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>harsh</dd>
</dl>
</div>

<nav id=toc>
<h2>Contents</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t01">Updates to multilingual translations</a></li>
<li><a href="#t02">Proposed change to include Non-Personal Data</a></li>
<li><a href="#t03">DGA extension</a></li>
<li><a href="#t04">Risk Management concepts</a>
<ol>
<li><a href="#t05">Risk Assessment</a></li>
<li><a href="#t06">Next steps</a></li>
</ol>
</li>
<li><a href="#t07">Data Breach concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#t08">Incident Reporting concepts</a></li>
<li class=app><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of action items</a></li>
</ol>
</nav>
</div>

<main id=meeting class=meeting>
<h2>Meeting minutes</h2>
<section><p id=x003 class=summary>Repository: w3c/dpv</p>
<p id=x010 class=summary>Meeting notes are available at - <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings</a></p>
<p id=x011 class=summary>purl for this meeting: <a href="https://w3id.org/dpv/meetings/meeting-2023-07-13">https://<wbr>w3id.org/<wbr>dpv/<wbr>meetings/<wbr>meeting-2023-07-13</a></p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t01>Updates to multilingual translations</h3>
<p id=x013 class=summary>tobias regretablly is not here to report back, so we will wait for updates regarding that</p>
<p id=x014 class=summary>ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">#89</a></p>
<p id=x015 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/89">Issue 89</a></strong> Multi-lingual labels and descriptions for concepts (coolharsh55)</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t02>Proposed change to include Non-Personal Data</h3>
<p id=x017 class=summary>ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">#99</a></p>
<p id=x018 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/99">Issue 99</a></strong> Proposal to change DPV scope to include Non-Personal Data (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x019 class=summary>No comments in terms of changes or further deliberations</p>
<p id=x020 class="phone s01"><cite>ted:</cite> If not on this group's radar already, BlackHat and similar conference presenters &amp; attendees are likely to be good folks to enlist, especially for helping with the circular RISK analysis.</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t03>DGA extension</h3>
<p id=x024 class="phone s02"><cite>beatriz:</cite> waiting for review of proposed concepts and integration with DPV</p>
<p id=x026 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> will review with beatriz and will report back findings in the next meeting<br>
<span id=x027>â€¦ ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">#62</a></span></p>
<p id=x028 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/62">Issue 62</a></strong> Add DGA/eIDAas entities (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=a01 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> beatriz and georg to review DGA proposed concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t04>Risk Management concepts</h3>
<p id=x031 class="phone s03"><cite>georg:</cite> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">#74</a></p>
<p id=x032 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/74">Issue 74</a></strong> Add Risk Management concepts from ISO 31000 series (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x033 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> what is the scope of 'risk' in DPV? Is it limited to personal data or also includes non-  personal data?</p>
<p id=x034 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> Depending on the resolution of proposed change to include non-personal data, the scope of the concept 'risk' will also change to include non-personal data. However, the focus of the group will remain on the risks associated with processing of personal data or relevant systems (e.g. AI).</p>
<p id=x035 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> are we doing only a checklist for DPIA in terms of concepts or also more?</p>
<p id=x036 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> the scope if broader in terms of DPIA, but we are also not doing full risk management as in internal organisational processes. We take risk as the information to be documented based on legal or other requirements. So outcomes of things are recorded, and then relevant concepts are added in a backwards-fashion.</p>
<p id=x037 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> For example, for DPIA, we started with the outcomes in terms of allowing processing to continue or not, and then developed what led to the decision, then the risks and impacts, and then we had a risk ontology.</p>
<p id=x038 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> what is the relation to my work on AI risk? Should there be specific controls for AI within DPV for example? What about including risk sources as a taxonomy?</p>
<p id=x039 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> In terms of the AI Act, we do not include proposals at the moment to focus on regulations or requirements that are concrete and will not change. The AI Act categorisation of risks may change in the next draft, for example. Therefore once the AI Act has been finalised, you should update your concepts to the final version and submit to DPV as a proposal, similar to what we are doing with DGA.</p>
<p id=x040 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> In terms of risk sources - yes, a taxonomy would be useful.</p>
<h4 id=t05>Risk Assessment</h4>
<p id=x042 class="phone s04"><cite>delaram:</cite> what concepts from Risk related vocabularies be included in DPVCG?</p>
<p id=x043 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> There are far too many different vocabularies for risk, and they are too vague and are not consistent with each other. This leads to confusion for me every time I start to look up risk assessment concepts.</p>
<p id=x044 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> The ISO risk vocabulary, ISO 31073:2022, is too vague and does not give an indication on how the concepts are to be used. They are also too broad to be specific here.</p>
<p id=x045 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> The idea therefore is to take a good authoritative set of concepts, such as the NIST Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments <a href="https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-30/rev-1/final">https://<wbr>csrc.nist.gov/<wbr>publications/<wbr>detail/<wbr>sp/<wbr>800-30/<wbr>rev-1/<wbr>final</a> and re-interpret the concepts to fit within the vocabulary we have in DPV.</p>
<p id=x046 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> This is the set I used for modelling the incident vocabulary, where the concepts are as follows - Risk is caused by Threat, Vulnerability causes Threat, Risk Source causes Vulnerability or Threat to exist, Threat Actor takes advantage of Vulnerability to make Threat happen leading to Risk.</p>
<p id=x047 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> That was the left side or the pre-event concepts. The post-event concepts relate to Consequence of the Risk, which might be on a Process or Service, and the Impacts arising from thereon. I will share this example in an email to enable us to discuss adding concepts to DPV.</p>
<h4 id=t06>Next steps</h4>
<p id=x049 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> The goal is to keep it as a simple model for representing the relevant information required to be reported and documented, quite likely by legal requirements. For example, NIS2 has incident reporting, and GDPR has data breach reporting. We do not model how things work internally.</p>
<p id=a02 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> harsh to send email regarding risk assessment concepts</p>
<p id=x051 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> With the email as example, delaram and I will discuss offline if needed and present findings next week</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t07>Data Breach concepts</h3>
<p id=x053 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">#64</a></p>
<p id=x054 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/64">Issue 64</a></strong> Provide concepts for Data Breach (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x055 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> No issues found with data breach concepts. Paul would like to review the spreadsheet for concepts and report back next week.</p>
<p id=a03 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> paul to review data breach concepts</p>
</section>

<section>
<h3 id=t08>Incident Reporting concepts</h3>
<p id=x059 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> Based on the email sent by harsh - <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-dpvcg/2023Jul/0006.html">https://<wbr>lists.w3.org/<wbr>Archives/<wbr>Public/<wbr>public-dpvcg/<wbr>2023Jul/<wbr>0006.html</a> there is a proposal to model incident reporting vocabulary<br>
<span id=x060>â€¦ ghurlbot, get <a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">#100</a></span></p>
<p id=x061 class=bot><cite>&lt;ghurlbot&gt;</cite> <strong><a href="https://github.com/w3c/dpv/issues/100">Issue 100</a></strong> Proposal to add (security) Incident Reporting concepts (coolharsh55)</p>
<p id=x063 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> The proposal is that these concepts be added to RISK extension, with data breach concepts being modified to be specialised from these, and added to the GDPR extension to reflect their requirement as per GDPR<br>
<span id=x064>â€¦ georg and paul agree with the proposal (idea) and would like to review it</span></p>
<p id=a04 class=action><strong>ACTION:</strong> georg and paul to review the Incident Reporting concepts</p>
<p id=x066 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> An example of the use of vocabulary is in the email where the use-case of a data breach shows both the breach and incident information being reported.</p>
<p id=x067 class="phone s05"><cite>harsh:</cite> The idea was to have incident concepts be in RISK extension as they are related to security, so together with risk concepts. GDPR specific stuff like data breach in the GDPR extension, and then a separate extension for NIS2 specific concepts (also in the email) which we will take up as a separate proposal.</p>
</section>
</main>

<div id=ActionSummary>
<h2>Summary of action items</h2>
<ol>
<li><a href="#a01">beatriz and georg to review DGA proposed concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a02">harsh to send email regarding risk assessment concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a03">paul to review data breach concepts</a></li>
<li><a href="#a04">georg and paul to review the Incident Reporting concepts</a></li>
</ol>
</div>


<address>Minutes manually created (not a transcript), formatted by <a
href="https://w3c.github.io/scribe2/scribedoc.html"
>scribe.perl</a> version 217 (Fri Apr  7 17:23:01 2023 UTC).</address>

</body>
</html>
